{"by": "captainmuon", "id": 43182004, "kids": [43182314, 43186981], "parent": 43151943, "text": "The cosmic distance ladder is fascinating. At university, we had an astrophysics professor who said his secret worry is that something was broken about the ladder. If you have a wrong assumption close to the bottom, then the error would compound the more you go to larger distances. And you would not just have quantitative errors, such as mismeasured distances, but qualitative errors. The objects you think you are looking at might be something completely different. It is unlikely because the picture we have is consistent. But it could be also wrong and still consistent. The big open questions such as dark matter &#x2F; dark energy could be the only hints we have that something is wrong.<p>I&#x27;m an experimental particle physicist by training and know that feeling. We never see the particles directly, but reconstruct them in a complex chain. Hits in a detector become tracks, tracks are assigned to particles according to our expectation of how those particles behave. Bunches of tracks are interpreted as decaying heavier particle. Sometimes I wonder if we missed something important in the early days of quantum mechanics and particle physics, and some of the things we think we are investigating don&#x27;t actually exist, or are subtly different than we think. But we look at the data though our lens, and see what we are expecting to see. My gut feeling says everything is consistent, and experiments match the theory so incredibly closely that it can&#x27;t be a coincidence, but I don&#x27;t think there is a mathematical proof. It could be that our theory is just so flexible that it lets us see Higgs particles and top quarks, even though the actual entities are something different. Like when people thought planets move in epicycles.<p>I know it is likely nonsense, but it is what motivated me every now and then to go back and revisit the basics of our field, like how is a particle state defined in QM, how does it interact with the experiment, how do we reconstruct larger objects, and so on.", "time": 1740560027, "type": "comment"}